>> Nina Zakharenko: Let's go ahead and
walk through the solution.
So the first thing we'll need
to do is checkout exercise7.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
>> Nina Zakharenko: I am going to make
a new commit.
>> Nina Zakharenko: I'm going to
>> Nina Zakharenko: Make a new file called
my_name.txt for example.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Actually
let me follow through with the
>> Nina Zakharenko: With
the examples that you use,
so
>> Nina Zakharenko: We
have our first file and a second file.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And I'm gonna add git
add first.txt and commit
it.
>> Nina Zakharenko: But
when I do a git status, oops,
I forgot to add the second file to our
commit.
>> Nina Zakharenko: This is fine.
As long as we haven't pushed our commit
to a remote repository that we're sharing
with other people, we can just amend
the last commit to include the other file.
To do that, we would need to add
that file to a staging area and
git commit --amend,
this is gonna open an editor.
It'll let you change the commit
message if you wanted to, but
I'm gonna leave it as is.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
now, we'll see that our commit,
committed two new files has
both of the files that we meant
to commit.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
let's get things ready for
a very simple rebase.
I'm going to checkout master.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
I'm gonna checkout a new exercise
branch.
>> Nina Zakharenko: This
one already exists.
I am going to delete it,
excuse me, with git branch -D.
And I will make a new
branch called exercise7-2.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Great, now if we look
in our log,
>> Nina Zakharenko: We'll see one or
two simple commits.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Here,
Master has changed.
We have our initial commit.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Master,
let's pretend that master is going to
keep changing as I work on this branch.
So I'm gonna checkout master again and
I'm going to add some
changes to our hello.txt.
>> Nina Zakharenko: When I
do double arrows here, it means I'm
appending to this file instead of
overriding it.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
if I look at it now,
it says we have some changes.
It's continuing to change.
We're gonna add this file and commit it.
>> Nina Zakharenko: When we go back
to our feature branch, in this case,
exercise7-2.
>> Nina Zakharenko: We're
going to git rebase master.
What that means is it's
gonna rewind my work.
It's gonna grab the work from master,
that commit, and pull it in.
And then it's gonna take mine commit,
the new commit that I made and
apply that change on top.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
if I look at my log now,
I'll see I have this commit here,
Master has continued to change.
If I git rebase from master,
>> Nina Zakharenko: And look at
my log again, we'll see that I have this
new commit, Master has changed again.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So if I had,
let me show this one more time.
If I make a new commit here,
>> Nina Zakharenko: And in my exercise7-2
branch and I add it.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And I commit it.
>> Nina Zakharenko: If I look at my log,
I will see,
>> Nina Zakharenko: Adding
hi.txt up here.
>> Nina Zakharenko: If I go
back to master, make a new commit.
>> Nina Zakharenko: If I checkout
my feature branch,
>> Nina Zakharenko: Exercise7-2, and
I look at the log,
if I git rebase from master,
and I look at the log, we'll see that
the change from master
has now been pulled in.
And that latest change on my branch,
adding hi.txt has been applied on top.
Cool, I like to do this pretty
frequently when I'm working on
a branch that's likely to have conflicts.
For master often and
fix those conflicts one at a time.
So that I'm not stuck with the crazy
merge commit when I'm ready to merge
my feature back into master.
>> Nina Zakharenko: We're
gonna do a very simple interactive rebase.
going to add one more
commit in our feature
branch.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
I'm gonna add that and commit it.
now we'll see that,
if I look at git log, with git log -n 3,
that's gonna let's look at
the last three commits.
We'll see that we have two commits
on top of master, adding hi, and
adding a new feature.
If we want to squash these commits
together and change their commit message,
we can do that with an interactive rebase.
So remember, I wanna start my
interactive rebase from this commit.
And I can do that in a few ways.
I can say HEAD tilde 2
to go two commits back.
I can reference the parent of this
commit or I can reference this actual
commit.
>> Nina Zakharenko: I'm going to
use HEAD-2 to reference two commits back.
Now when I do this,
an editor's going to open.
And we're gonna see the following,
it's big, it's scary.
There's lots of words but
now you all know what they mean.
So you shouldn't be too intimidated,
right?
When you rebase these things
list in top down order.
So kind of different than what
you're used to seeing in git log.
It's important to remember.
And now it's default to pick,
meaning just keep this commit as is.
>> Nina Zakharenko: What we're
gonna do is change them.
So I'm gonna say reward this commit,
meaning,
edit the commit message and
squash this commit back into
the previous one.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Now when I save this,
my editor is going to
open up two more times.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So, it automatically
opened again, right?
>> Nina Zakharenko: And,
I'm gonna change the commit message.
I'm gonna say Added two new features here.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Cool,
now, when I say this, my editor
is going to open up automatically
again to act on the next
action in that to-do list.
And there's a lot of
helpful information here.
It's saying this is
a combination of 2 commits.
This is the first commit message, so
that's the one that I had edited.
And this is the commit message number 2.
We don't care about this commit message.
We just wanna combine this
commit with the previous one.
So I'm gonna comment it out.
Now when I save it.
>> Nina Zakharenko: We'll see
that I successfully rebased, and
if I look at my log
>> Nina Zakharenko: We'll see
that adding hi is gone and
the other commit is gone.
And they've both been combined into this
one commit for adding two new features.
And that's the end of exercise7.
Hopefully, rebase is a lot less scary now.
It's not a dirty word,
it's incredibly useful.
These are all the time, almost everyday, I
commit early and often on my local branch.
I'm always making updates,
always backing up my work.
And when I need to share it
with coworkers, I rebase it.